# VirPreNet
A weighted ensemble convolutional neural network for the virulence prediction of influenza A virus using all 8 segments
Motivation: Influenza viruses are persistently threatening public health, causing annual epidemics and sporadic pandemics. The evolution of influenza viruses remains to be the main obstacle in the effectiveness of antiviral treatments due to rapid mutations. The goal of this work is to predict the virulence of influenza viruses using sequence data.  
Results: In this paper, we propose a weighted ensemble convolutional neural network for the virulence prediction of influenza A viruses using all 8 segments (VirPreNet). Firstly, mouse lethal dose 50 is exerted to label the virulence of infections into two classes, namely avirulent and virulent. A new distributed representation of amino acids ProtVec is applied to encode the biological sequences. After splittings and embeddings of influenza strains, the ensemble convolutional neural network is constructed as the base model on the influenza dataset of each segment, which serves as the VirPreNet's main part. Followed by a linear layer, the initial predictive outcomes are integrated and assigned with different weights for the final prediction. The experimental results on the collected influenza dataset indicate that VirPreNet achieves state-of-the-art performance combining the new distributed representation with our proposed architecture. It outperforms both traditional machine learning approaches and base ensemble CNN models on the independent testing data with the same feature representations. We believe that our model can be served as a reliable and robust framework for the prediction of influenza virulence and facilitate flu surveillance. 
